- Take a look around the room you're in right now.
- What do you see?
- Whatever is closest to you,
- Try picking it up.
- Did anything else in the room move
- when you did that?
- Unless you have mind control,
- Probably not.
- This is because objects around you
- Can be changed
- without affecting any other objects.
- Here's another example.
- Let's say you decide to take your family's car
- And paint it rainbow.
- *not recommended
- Would all the other cars in the world
- Turn rainbow too?
- No way!
- Not even your neighbor's car
- That looked exactly the same as yours.
- But why not?
- You can lift your pencil or paint a car
- Without affecting anything else
- Because the world is made up of
- Individual objects!
- There is a type of coding language
- That mirrors how the world works.
- It is called "Object-Oriented Programming,"
- or "OOP."
- In OOP, a programmer organizes code
- Into self-contained objects,
- Similar to the objects that are all around you.
- So, why is it useful for code to be object-oriented?
- We've talked about code before as just
- A simple sequence of instructions,
- And a lot of programs are built like this.
- But what if you want to write a program
- For something really big and complex,
- Like a game?
- Game code can be a few thousand,
- To millions of lines of code long.
- Without any clear organization,
- Your list of instructions would end up
- All jumbled, like a plate of spaghetti.
- With so many intertwined noodles,
- It would be nearly impossible to pull one out
- Without disrupting the others.
- In OOP,
- We can organize code in such a way
- That it becomes easier to maintain and change.
- Almost everything you see in a game program
- Has its own stuff, like data and actions,
- That are totally separate from
- The other things in the program,
- But then they work together to make the game complete.
- This is like pizza toppings.
- If we structure code as objects,
- Then we can change one part
- Without messing up anything else.
- So, you can pick off a pepperoni slice
- Without it affecting the other toppings.
- Both types of code are valid (and delicious!)
- But will be useful for different projects.
- We've been talking all about objects,
- But what exactly are they in code?
- Well, we actually have to answer this question first:
- What is a class?
- No, this class is not like the one you have at school.
- In programming,
- A class is a definition, or blueprint,
- From which individual objects are created.
- Think about a blueprint for a car.
- The blueprint will tell you what a car has:
- A body, wheels, engine;
- And what a car does,
- Like drive, brake, and turn.
- But the blueprint itself is not a car, right?
- It's just the definition of one.
- Take the class blueprint and use it to build a car.
- Now, you have an object.
- You can use the blueprint to make many more objects.
- Each one will look and behave the same.
- The cool part is that once the objects are created,
- You can modify each one without changing the rest,
- Which is why you can paint your car
- Without changing your neighbor's.
- In other words, an object is just
- The actual representation of a class.
- So what does all of this mean for Kodable?
- Well, most of the things you see in Bug World,
- Like the towers, slimes, and fur babies,
- Are all individual objects
- That can be controlled separately.
- At the start of any Bug World level,
- You will determine the objects
- That you will use to defeat the slimes.
- As you play,
- Collect the fur babies to gather points,
- And then use the points to create new objects.
- Notice the blueprint for the object's class
- Shows up after the object is placed.
- Similar to objects in the physical world,
- These objects in the game can be modified
- Without affecting any other objects.
- Now it's your turn!
- Log into Kodable, open Bug World,
- And start creating and modifying objects
- To defeat the slimes.
- Good luck!